Okay, so now let's talk
about EBS volume resizing.
So you can increase the size of your EBS volumes.
So you can increase the size or the IOPS if it's relevant.
And after resizing an EBS volume,
what you need to do is to repartition your drive.
That means that after you increase the size of your volume,
there's gonna be more size available,
but you're EC2 instance will not know about it
until you repartition your drive to tell your instance
to use that new space.
So when you increase the size, it's possible for the volume
to go into a long optimization phase.
This is to reorder the blocks, but during that time,
the volume is still usable and working as expected.
You cannot decrease the size of your EBS volume.
If you wanted to do so, you need to create a smaller volume,
then copy the data from one volume to another,
and then attach it properly.
So if we have a look at what happens,
so let's say we have a 250 gigabyte volume,
and then we are modifying it to make it one terabyte.
So it goes into the modifying space phase,
then it goes into the optimizing phase,
and then you'll be into the completed phase
with a one terabyte EBS volume.
But as I said, if from the perspective of your EC2 instance
there will be 250 gigabytes of partition already
being used and being mounted properly,
but you need to repartition your EBS volume
to add on that extra missing 750 gigabytes for that,
so that you're EC2 instance will be able
to use that exercise.
So let's have a look in the hands-on to how we can do it.
Let's practice resizing an EBS volume.
First, I need to launch an instance, an EC2 instance.
So I will scroll down.
Amazon Linux 2 is perfect.
I will choose a t2 micro.
I will go without a key pair, and then I will make sure
that I have a security group
that allows SSH traffic in from anywhere.
So this is perfect.
The storage looks good.
We'll be extending that storage later on.
So everything looks perfect.
Let's launch our instance.
Okay, so our instance is now created,
and we are now in the running state.
So using the EC2 instance connect feature,
I'm going to connect to my instance.
So I click on connect, EC2 instance connect, let's go.
And now I am on my instance.
So first, let's verify
that we have an eight gigabyte volume.
So I can do LSBLK, and as you can see,
we have an eight gigabyte volume
and partition on my volume.
If I do DF minus H as well,
we see right here that there's eight gigabytes
for XDV1, X V D 1.
Okay, so what I need to do now is to go
and extend my volume 'cause we want a bigger volume.
So back in here, I can go into my EC2 console,
under volumes, and find this volume right here.
It's an eight gigabyte root volume.
Then I will do action and then modify volume.
So here I have the option to change the volume type
to upgrade to GPG three, io1, io2, and so on,
but also to change the size.
So let's say we go from 8 to 10 gigabytes.
So let's modify this.
And as we can see,
increasing the file system size must imply
that you extend the file system
on your Linux instance and your Windows instance.
So I'm going to click on this link right here in a new tab
to do it on Linux and to have the instructions.
So let's modify this.
And now the request is being sent,
and the volume is being modified.
So this volume will go a few stages.
So now it's 10 gigabytes, as you can see.
And if you look at the status state, it is first resizing,
and then it will go into the optimizing phase.
So this is just a phase that happens
after the resize operation,
but we can still use the volume right now.
And if I refresh, I'm pretty sure the optimization
of the volume will be quite fast.
Okay, so how do we make sure it's 10 gigabytes?
Well, if I go back here now,
and type LSBLK, well this time,
as you see, there is a 10 gigabytes root volume,
and only eight gigabytes is partitioned.
And if I do DF minus H, as you can see again,
it's eight gigabytes for X V D A 1.
So we need to perform some operations
to use the full 10 gigabytes on my instance.
And to do so, very simple,
we'll just scroll down,
and we'll click on extend a Linux file system
after resizing a volume.
And we are going to place some commits.
So let's scroll down.
We've done LSBLK.
And what we have to do is to extend the partition.
So to extend the partition,
we need to use a growpart command
and specify the partition to extend.
So it's sudo growpart,
then the place, and then the partition number.
So let's have a look at it.
If we clear the screen and do an LSBLK again,
the device name is X V D A, and if I do a DF minus H,
then with the place it's at, slash dev slash XVDA 1.
So let's do sudo growpart slash dev slash XVDA space one.
And this command makes sure that we've grown our disc.
So if I do LSBLK, as you can see now, we have 10 gigabytes
for the main partition, which is the same size as the disc.
And if I do DF minus H though, we only see eight gigabytes.
So to fix this, we can run some more commands,
or simply, we can take our instance right here,
and we just reboot it from the console.
So let's do action and then reboot our instance.
So now if I try to connect again to my instance
using the EC2 instance connect utility,
if I do LSBLK, as you can see,
we have 10 gigabytes available
on both the partition and my disc.
But if I do DF minus H, now 10 gigabytes is also available
for use on my EC2 instance.
And that's it.
That's how you resize an EBS volume.
So I hope you liked it,
and don't forget to terminate that instance
when you're done.
Okay, I will see you in the next lecture.